README.md, before:

# About the project

BeerBuddy is a website where you can find and review beers. The website displays craft beers from the US, and uses a dataset [from Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nickhould/craft-cans/data). The website is made with a frontend in React and a backend in GraphQL. The backend uses a SQLite database.

## How to use the website

To be able to use the website you must first register to the website. You only need to register your name, and then a unique ID is generated and stored in the localstorage. This will then be used to identify you and your actions.

You can search for beers, and also alter filters to be able to find just the type of beer you're after. You can also sort the beers by popularity.

When you click on a beer you are able to see more information about it. Here you may find information about the brewery, and some detailed information about it's alcohol percentage and IBU. You are also to be able to vote it up or down, and you're able to comment. You can also see other people's comments.

# Run the project

## Set up backend and database

To set up the backend and database, please go to the [backend documentation](./backend/README.md).

## Set up frontend

To set up the frontend, please go to the [frontend documentation](./frontend/README.md).

# Run tests

## Run backend tests

To be implemented...

## Run frontend tests

To test the frontend, please go to the [frontend documentation](./frontend/README.md).

# Sustainability

If you want to learn about the measures taken to ensure a sustainable application, please go to the [sustainability documentation](./sustainability/README.md).

# Accessibility

If you want to learn about how we have ensured that our website is accessible to as many as possible, please go to the [accessibility documentation](./accessibility/README.md).

Commit message:

test: make e2e-config more stable, update docs
Update config to make e2e tests more stable and more likely to succeed.
Updated docs to reflect this as well as explain that backend is being tested implicitly through the e2e tests

ref: #111

Closes #111

Closes #111

See merge request it2810-h23/Team-15/prosjekt-2!83

Co-authored-by: Frederik Farstad <Frederf@stud.ntnu.no>

README.md, after:

# About the project

BeerBuddy is a website where you can find and review beers. The website displays craft beers from the US, and uses a dataset [from Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nickhould/craft-cans/data). The website is made with a frontend in React and a backend in GraphQL. The backend uses a SQLite database.

## How to use the website

To be able to use the website you must first register to the website. You only need to register your name, and then a unique ID is generated and stored in the localstorage. This will then be used to identify you and your actions.

You can search for beers, and also alter filters to be able to find just the type of beer you're after. You can also sort the beers by popularity.

When you click on a beer you are able to see more information about it. Here you may find information about the brewery, and some detailed information about it's alcohol percentage and IBU. You are also to be able to vote it up or down, and you're able to comment. You can also see other people's comments.

# Run the project

## Set up backend and database

To set up the backend and database, please go to the [backend documentation](./backend/README.md).

## Set up frontend

To set up the frontend, please go to the [frontend documentation](./frontend/README.md).

# Run tests

## Run frontend tests

To test the frontend, please go to the [frontend documentation](./frontend/README.md).

## Backend testing

The backend and API are implicitly tested through the frontend tests. To run the frontend tests, please go to the [frontend documentation](./frontend/README.md).

# Sustainability

If you want to learn about the measures taken to ensure a sustainable application, please go to the [sustainability documentation](./sustainability/README.md).

# Accessibility

If you want to learn about how we have ensured that our website is accessible to as many as possible, please go to the [accessibility documentation](./accessibility/README.md).
